.Dd April 16, 2024
.Dt BACKTICK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm backtick
.Nd run a program and stores its output in an environment variable, then execute another program
.Sh SYNOPSIS
In an
.Xr execlineb 1
script:
.Nm
.Op Fl i | Fl I | Fl x | Fl D Ar default
.Op Fl N | Fl n
.Op [ -E | -e
.Ar variable
{
.Ar prog1...
}
.Ar prog2...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads
.Ar prog1...
in an
.Xr execline-block 7
and unquotes it.
.Pp
It runs
.Ar prog1...
as a child process and saves its output in memory.
This output must not contain a null character.
.Pp
.Nm
.Xr exec 3 Ns
s into
.Ar prog2... ,
with
.Ar variable
added to the environment with
.Ar prog1... Ap
s output as a value.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl N
Store
.Ar prog1... Ap
s output as is, including the last newline, if any.
.It Fl n
Chomp an ending newline off
.Ar prog1... Ap
s output.
This is the default.
.It Fl e
No autoimport.
This is the default.
.It Fl E
Autoimport.
Before
.Xr exec 3 Ap
ing into
.Ar prog2... ,
perform a substitution
.Po
cf.\&
.Xr execline-substitute 7
.Pc
so that
.Ql $?
is replaced with
.Ar prog1... Ap
s exitcode
.Po
if applicable, see below
.Pc ,
and
.Ql ${ Ar variable No }
is replaced with
.Ar prog1... Ap
s output, instead of keeping the results in the environment.
The variables will not appear in the environment; if they preexisted
in
.Nm Ap
s environment, they will be removed.
.It Fl i
.Nm
exits with an approximation
.Po
cf.\&
.Xr execline-exitcodes 7
.Pc
of
.Ar prog1 Ap
s exit code, or 124 if
.Ar prog1
wrote a null character.
This is the default.
.It Fl I
The value of
.Ar variable
is set to whatever the start of
.Ar prog1... Ap
s output is, up to the first null character, or to whatever
.Ar prog1...
wrote before crashing; chomping is applied if required; then execution
proceeds.
.It Fl x
.Ar variable
is
.Sy removed
from the environment, and execution proceeds.
.It Fl D Ar default
The value of
.Ar variable
is set to
.Ar default ,
and execution proceeds.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr background 1 ,
.Xr foreground 1 ,
.Xr if 1 ,
.Xr ifelse 1 ,
.Xr ifte 1 ,
.Xr ifthenelse 1 ,
.Xr pipeline 1 ,
.Xr runblock 1 ,
.Xr execline-block 7
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/execline/backtick.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
